
There are many competing designs of MCHP being actively developed, but in general they consist of some arrangement of: a high surface area to volume structure of [[magnetocaloric material (MCM)]] usually referred to as an active magnetocaloric regenerator (AMR), a magnetic field source, heat transfer fluid, a pump, and a heat exchanger. [@trevizoliPV2016-MagneticHeatPumps] 
Typically the heat transfer fluid is a water/glycol mix that is pumped to move energy in from a cold reservoir to the AMR and out to a hot reservoir with heat exchangers at both ends. [@trevizoliPV2016-MagneticHeatPumps] 

Some designs use a standard pump controlling various flows with dedicated valves while others use reciprocating displacers trading some control authority for simplicity. [@liangJ2024-ScalingMagnetocaloricHeat]

As for the magnetic field source, state of the art MCHP designs overwhelmingly opt for permanent magnets over electromagnets for simplicity as even with superconducting coils the energy required to produce the field strengths required (~1-2 T) are prohibitive along with the electromagnetic perturbations being much harder to confine. There is still a great deal of variety in magnetic circuit design as researchers find optimisations to provide the greatest field strength variation with the minimum permanent magnet material. The magnet itself tends to represent the majority of the cost of an MCHP. [@trevizoliPV2016-MagneticHeatPumps; @zimmC2018-EvolutionMagnetocaloricHeatpump]

Materials scientist are continually testing improved magnetocaloric materials. The state of the art are predominantly alloys based on either gadolinium or lanthanum-iron-silicon (LaFeSi). [@schipperJ2023-EfficiencyCaloricMaterials] Most MCHP designs tend to use several AMR beds in parallel to scale up capacity for higher output power (>1kW) however, this can introduce issues with uneven flow. [@liangJ2024-ScalingMagnetocaloricHeat] Some designs vary properties over the length of a single AMR bed to have each section optimised for the specific temperature span it is likely to encounter. This can be done by varying the material composition or the micro / macro structure. [@zimmC2018-EvolutionMagnetocaloricHeatpump] 

As most [magnetocaloric material (MCM)](magnetocaloric%20material%20(MCM).md)'s only exhibit a small temperature change (Gadolinium exhibits $11 K$ adiabatic temperature change at a field strength of $5 T$ [@schipperJ2023-EfficiencyCaloricMaterials]) MCHPs must use several AMR stages in series to achive a span suitable for domestic/comercial space heating (>20 K) this is referred to as cascading. [@hessT2020-ThermalHysteresisIts]