Individual project/Notes/Logs/Interim Assesment/Interim Assesment Plan.md, before:


## Plan up to interim presentation
%%[[2025-01-21]] @ 12:49%%

### Key dates

- Report hand in: 2025-02-06
- Presentation: within 15 days of report hand in

### Key milestones

- Literature review draft
- Book Presentation
- Interim report first draft
- Interim report final draft
- interim presentation practice run

### Gantt chart

```mermaid
---
displayMode: compact
---

gantt
dateFormat YYYY-MM-DD
axisFormat %d
tickInterval 1day

section lit review
	Reading: 2025-01-15, 2025-01-22
	draft: 2025-01-20, 2025-01-24
	Lit rev send for comment: milestone, 2025-01-24, 1d
section Report
	Interim report: 2025-01-23, 2025-02-06
	first draft: milestone, 2025-01-27, 1d
	final draft: milestone, 2025-02-03, 1d
	Interim report hand in: crit, milestone, 2025-02-06, 1d

section presentation
	Book Presentation: milestone, 2025-01-29, 1d
	Prepare: 2025-02-06, 2025-02-12
	practice run: milestone, 2025-02-10, 1d
	presentation: milestone, crit, 2025-02-12, 1d
	
```

^IndividualProjectInterimGantt

## ToDos

- [ ] [[Interim Report]] 
	- [ ] Interim Report Plan
	- [x] [[Literature Review]] (*see [[Literature Review Plan]] for more detail*) ✅ 2025-01-24
	- [ ] First Draft

- [ ] [[Interim Presentation]]
	- [ ] Interim Presentation Plan
	- [ ] Handouts
		- [ ] [[Diabetic nephropathy]] handout
	- [ ] Slides
	- [ ] talking points

## Assessment

> [!quote] Expected progress
> Typically by the interim assessment literature reviews are broadly completed and some initial practical work (e.g. in a lab; data collection etc.) may have commenced.  

The interim comprises a **progress report** which capture the **literature survey** and future directions that the student intends to take the project based on this survey. The report is supported by a 20 minute oral examination where you must bring your **logbook** and a **Self-Evaluation Form** to demonstrate reflective practice. The Interim stage is ‘Double Marked’ (i.e. independently assessed by 1st and 2nd Marker).

The following must be submitted electronically on TurnitIn as a single document:  
- Written Report.  
- The Self Evaluation form (appended below).  
- A Risk Assessment Form (If applicable - this must be completed as soon as it is  

needed, and no later than this deadline and handed to the Supervisor. A copy should be kept in the student’s logbook.)  
- An updated ethics application should be submitted if applicable and not already done.

Commit message:

previously lit rev becomes Interim Report - Introduction & Background

Individual project/Notes/Logs/Interim Assesment/Interim Assesment Plan.md, after:


## Plan up to interim presentation
%%[[2025-01-21]] @ 12:49%%

### Key dates

- Report hand in: 2025-02-06
- Presentation: within 15 days of report hand in

### Key milestones

- Literature review draft
- Book Presentation
- Interim report first draft
- Interim report final draft
- interim presentation practice run

### Gantt chart

```mermaid
---
displayMode: compact
---

gantt
dateFormat YYYY-MM-DD
axisFormat %d
tickInterval 1day

section lit review
	Reading: 2025-01-15, 2025-01-22
	draft: 2025-01-20, 2025-01-24
	Lit rev send for comment: milestone, 2025-01-24, 1d
section Report
	Interim report: 2025-01-23, 2025-02-06
	first draft: milestone, 2025-01-27, 1d
	final draft: milestone, 2025-02-03, 1d
	Interim report hand in: crit, milestone, 2025-02-06, 1d

section presentation
	Book Presentation: milestone, 2025-01-29, 1d
	Prepare: 2025-02-06, 2025-02-12
	practice run: milestone, 2025-02-10, 1d
	presentation: milestone, crit, 2025-02-12, 1d
	
```

^IndividualProjectInterimGantt

## ToDos

- [ ] [[Interim Report]] 
	- [ ] Interim Report Plan
	- [x] [[Interim Report - Introduction and Background]] (*see [[Literature Review Plan]] for more detail*) ✅ 2025-01-24
	- [ ] First Draft

- [ ] [[Interim Presentation]]
	- [ ] Interim Presentation Plan
	- [ ] Handouts
		- [ ] [[Diabetic nephropathy]] handout
	- [ ] Slides
	- [ ] talking points

## Assessment

> [!quote] Expected progress
> Typically by the interim assessment literature reviews are broadly completed and some initial practical work (e.g. in a lab; data collection etc.) may have commenced.  

The interim comprises a **progress report** which capture the **literature survey** and future directions that the student intends to take the project based on this survey. The report is supported by a 20 minute oral examination where you must bring your **logbook** and a **Self-Evaluation Form** to demonstrate reflective practice. The Interim stage is ‘Double Marked’ (i.e. independently assessed by 1st and 2nd Marker).

The following must be submitted electronically on TurnitIn as a single document:  
- Written Report.  
- The Self Evaluation form (appended below).  
- A Risk Assessment Form (If applicable - this must be completed as soon as it is  

needed, and no later than this deadline and handed to the Supervisor. A copy should be kept in the student’s logbook.)  
- An updated ethics application should be submitted if applicable and not already done.
