## Ethan +5
Ethan has put a great deal of work in over the course of the project. He has sacrificed many an early night and seen plenty of early mornings to get this project to where it is now. Eth works to a high level of quality and that's vital, being able to delegate him a task and know once he says he is done that's the task finished I don't think I've ever had to give his work back to him with any notes. As you may expect to get higher quality work, Ethan dose take a little while to get going but that's more than outweighed by the consistent quality of his end results.

## Jamie +2
Jamie is a hard worker, he has been though quite allot this year but still managed to put in his hours and often go above and beyond when it comes to crunch time. I admire his work ethic. Jamie takes on allot of responsibility if there is work doing he will be the first to put his hand up and take it on. This can be somewhat of a double edged sword; as is often the case with unstoppable forces Jamie isn't as agile. He thrives in consistent work but if assigned larger tasks that need breaking down or unfamiliar tasks he will really struggle to get started and sometimes needs micromanaging which adds significantly to my workload.

## Crispin -1
Crispin is certainly the most natural an engineer, its clear he has the mind for it. Crispin is in many ways an equal opposite to Jamie, I can assign Crispin quite vague and abstract tasks and he will independently break down the problem and adapt to the challenges presented even learning new skills to tackle novel problems without needing much guidance from me. This is fantastic, however every engineer knows everything has its trade off. Where Jamie is not so independent but very accountable, Crispin is capable of being very independent but is not very accountable. I have at times been frustrated with Crispin for not taking on his fair share of responsibility and not being transparent about his progress. This black box style makes it difficult when I would like to get Crispin involved in collaborative tasks. All the members have some difficulties with time management but Crispin's work style makes this much more frustrating.